hi just a couple more tips and tricks
trying to figure out after the last 25
years number one always just be the bass
player the bass player really doesn't
necessarily get a lot of attention you
can there's great players and do but so
much of the time if you're going for the
attention you do so at the expense of
the song or anybody else it's the
hardest thing is to not overplay I used
to be really bad about it now I'm just
bad about it you tend to play everything
too fast or you play too much less
really is more especially if you're
playing for the song after just going to
play around by yourself and you can do
it everyone a lot of the little tricky
little things that you spend hours and
hours practicing on you're just going to
get lost as soon as you put in drums and
guitar at piano or horns or whatever so
you're really just better off finding
what the important notes are in your
line and just sticking them right where
they need to go it's a lot harder to do
than it looks there's a lot of players
that play really fairly simple lines but
they're very difficult to groove the way
that they do you might laugh but you
shouldn't main guy like then it's got in
cliff Williams at place for ac/dc
it's not hard lines to play but man it
is really tough to groove the way that
that guy does so number one slow down I
done so much of that I'll show you a
little riff that I did a long time ago
that I used to just play a hundred
million miles an hour for no good reason
and then I slowed it down and figured
out wow it actually sounds a lot cooler
than I would have thought when I
actually got a chance to listen to it
and especially because that test I
really couldn't play in any way here
it's an F so he played in a real speed
sounds like this
so I know I think it's cooler that way
it's also a little easier to play so
anyway see it's been working really hard
you get this riff down I'm of the
opinion you should really ask yourself
seriously why you're not doing something
like this I mean you know if you're
playing by yourself and yeah do whatever
you want
but you're never going to hear all that
little stuff in the middle let the group
just play the bass I really think you'd
be happier I know it's no fun the bass
player may often times be invisible but
a good one is never forgettable so
that's what you ought to really work
to worth the effort thanks
you